The controller makes up one component of the MVC architecture.
The controller responds to web requests by managing the model and presenting the view.
In this lesson, you will create a controller inside Spring Boot.
Spring Boot uses annotations to create magic.
Annotations create the sensation of magic.
They add logic to an application without you having to add any code.
So in the model of the controller section, you will encounter these for annotations.
Controller get mapping, post mapping and request parameters.
Each annotation magically adds functionality to your Spring Boot app.
This annotation converts a class into a controller, as the name suggests.
So when you annotate a class with ADD controller, it becomes the entry point for all web requests.
In turn, the controller class contains handler methods.
A handler method can respond to a web request.
All right.
First thing we're going to do is inside the grade submission folder, create a new file called Grade
Controller Java.
And what we're going to do is annotate the class with ADD controller.
If you don't annotate the class with controller, spring boot will not see this class and nothing inside
is going to run.
Now recall the controller is the entry point for all web requests, and one type of request that it
can handle is get requests.
A get request is when the user is requesting a resource.
In other words, a get request is when the user wants to get a resource from our Spring Boot app.
The user can make a request from the browser.
The URL that they type must specify the host.
The port.
And the path.
So in the last section, you were actually making get requests the entire time.
The Host and port will send the request to the Spring Boot app.
Once their request reaches the app, the controller is its entry point.
The controller uses the path portion of a request to decide which handler method to run.
The handler method responds by returning a resource.
In this case, it's some type of HTML.
All right.
The next annotation is get mapping.
This annotation magically converts a method into a handler method.
The handler method can respond to get requests.
When you annotate a method with get mapping, it can respond to a get request.
The get mapping annotation receives one argument a path.
This method can respond to get requests made on the path.
Hello.
So inside grade controller java create a method called say hello that returns a string.
Public string say hello.
And the string is going to return is some HTML view.
For the time being.
And now we'll give the method the get mapping annotation.
Wait for autocomplete to show, get mapping, click on it.
And you can see that at auto imports.
And now we want to make sure that this method responds to get requests made on the path.
Hello.
You can go ahead and run your spring boot application.
And then from your browser make a request to local host 8080 slash.
Hello.
And we get an error code.
The user makes a request on the path slash.
Hello.
The controller maps the request to a handler method that matches the path.
The handler method tries responding with a view called some HTML view.
What it does is it actually looks inside the templates folder.
It can't find anything, so it returns an error code.
The controller is the entry point for all web requests.
Once the request reaches the app, the controller is its entry point.
The controller uses the path portion of a request to decide which handler method to run.
The Handler method is the one that responds to the get request.